
I'd always possessed an affinity for storytelling
my other major was English,
after all but I'd never considered integrating my passion for Japanese with my love of
literature until my junior year of college. While studying abroad at Sophia University in
Tokyo, I enrolled in an introductory course on Japanese literature through which I
discovered an array of acclaimed Japanese writers, including Kawabata Yasunari,
Tanizaki Jun'ichiro
, Mishima Yukio, and Enchi Fumiko. I quickly fell in love with the
evocative and visceral imagery ubiquitous in their works and began to crave more. The
following year, I registered for Aiko Nakamura's "Love, Gender, and Identity in
Japanese Literature" and Aaron Smith's "The Natural Environment in Japanese
Literature and Culture." In these courses, I particularly enjoyed Tanizaki's twisted love
story,
Quicksand
, and the pungent sense of desolation in Abe K
o
b
o
's
The
Woman in the
Dunes
. Since obtaining my bachelor's degree, my interest in modern Japanese literature
has only grown s
tronger. I've devoured several short stories by Murakami Haruki and
am steadily unraveling Kawabata's oeuvre. So far, my favorite pieces of Kawabata are
House of the Sleeping Beauties
, "One Arm," and
Palm
-
of
-
the
-
Hand Stories
.
But modern literature
isn't the only Japan
-
related field for which I've developed a
sincere fondness; I am also deeply intrigued by Ainu culture. In 2013, I expatriated to a
small town in Hokkaido to work as an English teacher. There, I plunged myself into
Ainu culture: I visit
ed several Ainu museums, conversed in Japanese with various Ainu
people, and attended a weekly Ainu
-
language immersion class for two months
(
irankarapte!
). I'm specifically fascinated by Ainu mythology, or
kamuy yukar
, and its
survival into the modern age.
Ideally, I'll eventually be able to translate the
kamuy
yukar
into English without using Japanese as an intermediary.
Both of these interests of mine, albeit evidently distinct, share a defining
characteristic: they tell a story of Japan
-
a story I am comm
itted to engaging with on a
scholarly level. This is why I am ready for graduate school at the University of Michigan.
Your Master of Arts in Japanese Studies program offers an ideal interdisciplinary
environment wherein I can develop strategies for decodi
ng the symbolism and syntax of
Japanese narratives while honing my Japanese
-
language skills. A master's degree will
also assist me significantly in my career. For the past year I've worked as a freelance
writer and editor, but my overarching goal is to bre
ak into Japanese
-
English translation,
preferably in the literary sector. Despite my holding JLPT N2 certification, I lack both
basic knowledge of translation methods and sufficient exposure to the Japanese literary
canon; thus, I believe the University of
Michigan's program in Japanese studies will not
only improve my Japanese but also provide me with the tools, support, and foundation
necessary for ultimately becoming a successful literary translator.
Sample Graduate S
chool Statement of Purpose One
Truly, I am committed to this intellectual journey, and
to the University of Michigan
itself. Though I've yet to meet personally with any faculty members, Christopher Hill
(for modern Japanese literature) and Jennifer Robertson (for Japanese ethnography)
appear to possess research interests most closely aligni
ng with my own. Attending the
University of Michigan for Japanese studies is a natural step for me, one I'm prepared
to take and work tirelessly for, with both diligence and alacrity. I've made my decision.
Now, I look forward to yours